feat: add AssetManager specs (#11)
kroma-network/kroma-specs: specs/validator-system-v2/overview.md

# Validator System V2

<!-- All glossary references in this file. -->

[g-l2-output]: ../glossary.md#l2-output-root
[g-zk-fault-proof]: ../glossary.md#zk-fault-proof
[g-validator-pool-contract]: ../glossary.md#validator-pool-contract
[g-validator]: ../glossary.md#validator
[g-validator-reward]: ../glossary.md#validator-reward

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**

- [Background](#background)
- [Overview](#overview)
  - [Participants](#participants)
    - [Validators](#validators)
    - [KRO Delegators](#kro-delegators)
    - [KGH Delegators](#kgh-delegators)
  - [Priority Validator Selection](#priority-validator-selection)
  - [Reward Distribution](#reward-distribution)
- [Contracts](#contracts)
- [Summary of Definitions](#summary-of-definitions)
  - [Constants](#constants)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Background

> The [current permissionless validator system](../protocol/validator.md) of Kroma ensures economic security by bonding

Reviewer: I think the "economic security" is a bit ambiguous. I think it would be better to just say that it bonds ETH when submitting output.

`REQUIRED_BOND_AMOUNT` of ETH each time the validator submits an [L2 output root][g-l2-output]. While successfully
involving over 360 validators (as of 6/3/24), there are a few drawbacks in the current system that need to be addressed:

> - **Validator Exploitation Vulnerability**: Since the probability of being selected as a priority validator is

Author: I think the `Exploitation Vulnerability` is kinda strong word and implies that the current system has a serious bug, so how about` Multiple Accounts on a Single Validator `?

Reviewer: Agree

  calculated to be the same if only `REQUIRED_BOND_AMOUNT` of ETH is deposited, a single validator can increase the
  probability by splitting assets between many accounts. This behavior can have a negative impact on chain security and
  should be improved.
- **Poor Accessibility to Participation**: Despite having one of the largest validator pools among current L2 networks,
  technical barriers limit participation to those who can run validators, excluding many people who would like to
  contribute to the network security and earn incentives.

These limitations are addressed by introducing Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS) system to the new validator system. The
new validator system will fortify the security of the entire network and lower the barrier of participation,
incorporating delegation system based on Kroma's governance token (KRO) and Kroma Guardian House (KGH) NFT.

## Overview

**Validator System V2** is a new network security model of Kroma, which introduces KRO tokenomics and delegation to the

> current validator system. It retains current [ZK fault proof][g-zk-fault-proof] and

Reviewer: How about this?
```suggestion
current validator system. It is compatible with current [ZK fault proof][g-zk-fault-proof] and
```

[challenge system](../fault-proof/challenge.md), while introducing two new contracts: **Validator Manager** and
**Asset Manager** contract. These contracts replace the existing [Validator Pool contract][g-validator-pool-contract],
handling jobs such as validator management, delegation, next priority validator selection, reward distribution, and
challenge slashing.

### Participants

There are three types of participants in the Validator System V2: Validators, KRO delegators, and KGH delegators.

#### Validators

> [Validators][g-validator] are the party who actually runs the node and submits the output root, which is the same as

Author: ```suggestion
[Validators][g-validator] are the entities who actually run the node and submit the output root, which are the same as
```

validators in the current validator system. Validators must stake their tokens (KRO) to be eligible to submit output,
and their chances of submitting output increase proportionally to the amount of tokens they stake. If the submitted
output is finalized, they will receive tokens as a [reward][g-validator-reward], while if the output is challenged and
lost, a portion of the staked tokens and the output submission reward will be transferred to the challenge winner.

#### KRO Delegators

KRO delegators delegate their tokens (KRO) to validators and increase the probability of the validators being
selected as a priority validator for output submission. As compensation for the delegation, KRO delegators receive a

> portion of the base reward which the validators earn for submitting output, proportional to the number of delegated

Reviewer: This is where base reward first appears, so why don't we create a "base reward" glossary and link to it?

tokens.

#### KGH Delegators

KGH delegators delegate KGHs to validators and increase their chances of being selected as a priority validator by the

> number of tokens (KRO) contained in the KGH and boost their output submission rewards. In return for delegation, they

Reviewer: It would be nice to create a "boosted reward" glossary here as well and link to it.

> receive a portion of the base reward proportional to the number of tokens in their KGH, and share in the boosted reward.

Reviewer: The word "share" also appears here for the first time, but why not say that you get a share of the boosted reward proportional to the amount of KGH you delegate?

### Priority Validator Selection

> The probability of a validator being selected as a priority validator who has priority for the next output submission is

Author: ```suggestion
The probability of a validator being selected as the validator who has priority for the next output submission is
```

Seems like dup

proportional to the amount of tokens delegated to the validator. The amount of delegated tokens includes both the amount
of tokens staked by themselves and the amount of tokens delegated by KRO delegators, as well as the amount of tokens
contained in KGH delegated by KGH delegators.

> ### Reward Distribution

Reviewer: It would be nice to have a figure of the base reward, the boosted reward, and the rewards that are distributed to commission and delegates, like the one that was in our Confluence. We don't need it right now, let's add it later.

The token given as a reward for submitting an output consists of base reward and boosted reward. Base reward is the same

> quantity for all outputs and is divided between the validator and KRO delegators according to the commission rate set by

Reviewer: I think it would be better to mention both KRO delegators and KGH delegators here, and say that validators are paid as commission at the commission rate, and remained rewards are distributed proportionally to the number of KROs delegated.
